hi guys I'm Ricky here today I'm making
a video to response one of my subscriber
she's made up with you
just to ask how I saved my own kids and
stuff like that so I know that I've got
a few videos talking about how I saved
my whole goods and what ways is up like
that but I haven't gone into trip steps
and stepped to show how to save them I
haven't saved a lot of goods I've only
saved three so these are the three is
I've saved and and this one is a cakey
it didn't use to have any roots but I
saved it and the roots is coming up so
hopefully this will survive and I'm sure
it will and these two I transfer them
into hydrogen plate medium they didn't
used to have any roots at all especially
this one here I know that I've shown
this one here I know that I show this
one in a few video already so it's been
doing really well there's a lot of roots
growing inside and there's a new area
root outside as well sticking out so
these are the roots inside and what's
good about the glass ways and hydrogen
clay is that we can actually see what's
inside and see how the progress of the
roots and this one here it used to be
the mother plan of escape but um once I
cut out the keiki out of the mother
plant the mother plant didn't do well
and got really sick and the root or
rotten but I've transferred to hydrogen
clay and now the roots are coming out if
you see that little roots there and
there's the other roots on the side and
also there's a new leaf coming up so
which means this plant is striving and
it's going to do well and it will
survive so hopefully after 2 or 3 years
they will give us pretty big blooms
okay so now I want to tell you about how
distinguish between sick orchids and
between healthy orchids if you have a
clear plastic pot you can easily see
inside the root system for example this
one here it means that this orchid is
really healthy but if you have a black
pot that you can't see the root system
inside so just check the leaf if it's
firm and stiff and it shiny as well
which mean this plant is doing really
well and also you touch it you know if
it's quite thick and and when you lift
it up just drop like that very stiff so
which means this plant is doing well so
without having to check the root systems
for example this one here if you touch
the leaf it's really thin and wrinkly so
which means this this one is not doing
well at all and if you see the leaf just
drop like that so it's not doing well so
today I'm going to check this plants
that I'm going to cut this spike out and
I will check the root system inside see
houses plants doing and then I will put
it in glass waste with heikal hydrogen
mediums so before I used my tools
specially the scissors i sterilize it
with alcohol so today I'm using the hand
sanitizer which has alcohol in it and
it's it's just fine
I've been doing that for a lot of times
and I haven't had any problems use it to
cut the spike out yeah here we go
so now it's a really good opportunity to
check what the root system is like so
what I do is just pull it out it's
actually quite okay there are no mushy
roots the root are still quite hot so
which means this plan is still doing
fine but I'm not sure why is the lever
so soft and and it doesn't produce any
new relief or any new roots for a while
already so it might not be doing well
with this box here so this root it fits
perfectly fine in this pot here this
glass waste at the bottom I put a few
hydrogen clay medium and there now the
medium that I'm using to put in this pot
is that some speck no moss a little bit
of box and most of them are hydrogen
clay media and then just stack them all
inside
so this pregnant moth will give the
moisture to the roots and - clay is to
give air a root and also moisture as
well and the bags just give a little bit
of nutrients to do so how you water this
plant is to put a little bit of
fertilizer and fill the water up until
here soak it for a minute or two and
then just pour the water out but this
hasn't played water once a week is
totally fine in the winter and summer
twice a week and there you go and also
um
to make it strife a little bit more with
the plant that have no reverse planners
actually it's not necessary to put it on
a humidity train but for example these
two plans it is necessary to put it on a
humidity train so like that because they
didn't have any roots at all and because
they don't have roots they can't absorb
water so what the plants does is that
the leaf is actually absorbing water if
you have gravels in a tray and fill it
some water and then have a stick on here
and use the back to cover and translate
that in a quite bright light area at the
window and then what it does is that it
will keep the plant warm in the winter
times and also they can absorb water
from stray as well and after three
months to the rule eventually comes out
for this particular plant its finds like
that you don't need to put it on the
tray but if you do want to put it in the
tray it will be a lot better well that's
all for today thank you so much for
watching so if you like this video
this could click Subscribe and also
click the like button thank you so much
and hope this helped
for some people thank you bye